Import Tezos X doc (#436)
etherlinkcom/docs: docs/overview/accounts-and-aliases.md

---
title: Accounts and Aliases
---

# Accounts and Aliases

## Accounts

> Every account in Etherlink<!--TX--> is **native to exactly one interface**: either the EVM interface or the Michelson interface. An interface fully owns its accounts: it defines their behaviour, manages their state, and controls how they interact with smart contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every account in Etherlink<!--TX--> is **native to exactly one interface**: either the EVM interface or the Michelson interface. An interface fully owns its accounts: it defines their behaviour, manages their state, and controls how they interact with each other.
```

This means:
- An EVM account (native to the Etherlink EVM<!--TEVM--> interface), beit an externally owned account or smart contract, behaves exactly as it would on any other EVM-compatible chain.
- A Tezos account (native to the Tezos Michelson interface) behaves exactly as it would on Tezos Layer 1.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An EVM account (native to the EVM<!--TEVM--> interface), be it an externally owned account or smart contract, behaves exactly as it would on any other EVM-compatible chain.
- A Tezos account (native to the Michelson interface) behaves exactly as it would on Tezos Layer 1.

```

> Each interface's tooling, wallets, and indexers work without modification because the underlying account semantics are unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each interface's tooling, wallets, and indexers work without modification within the boundaries of their native interface because the underlying account semantics are unchanged.
```

### EVM alias of a Tezos account

When a Tezos account interacts with the EVM runtime for the first time, an EVM alias address is created for it. The alias is implemented using **EIP-7702 delegation**: a shared `AliasForwarder` contract is deployed at the alias address and stores the native Tezos address. Any tez received by the EVM alias is automatically forwarded back to the native Tezos account via the gateway.

The EVM alias address is computed as the **first 20 bytes of the Keccak256 hash of the base58check-encoded Tezos address** (the human-readable string form, e.g. `tz1VSUr8wwNhLAzempoch5d6hLRiTh8Cjcjb`):

```
evm_alias = keccak256(utf8(tz_address_base58check))[0:20]
```

### Michelson alias of an EVM account

When an EVM account interacts with the Michelson runtime for the first time, a Michelson alias is created as a **KT1 smart contract**. This contract automatically forwards any tez it receives back to the native EVM account via the gateway.

The KT1 alias address is computed by applying **BLAKE2b with a 20-byte output** to the raw 20-byte binary of the EVM address, then encoding the result as a KT1 contract hash:

```

> kt1_alias = KT1(blake2b_160(evm_address_bytes))

Reviewer 2: The KT1 alias is not derived from the raw 20-byte address — the kernel hashes the UTF-8 bytes of the **lowercase hex string including the `0x` prefix**:

- `etherlink/kernel_latest/tezosx-types/src/lib.rs` — `canonicalize_native_address(RuntimeId::Ethereum, addr) = addr.to_lowercase()` ("The address bytes hold the UTF-8 form of the address string")
- `etherlink/kernel_latest/revm/src/journal.rs` (doc of `CrossRuntimeCall`): *"`RuntimeId::Tezos` → `blake2b-160(lowercase_hex(address))` formatted as a `KT1...` base58check string"*

So the formula should be:

```
kt1_alias = KT1(blake2b_160(utf8("0x" + lowercase_hex(evm_address))))
```

Anyone recomputing aliases off-chain from the current formula gets a different address. (The reverse direction just above — keccak256 of the base58check *string* — is correct, and nicely symmetric with the fix.)

Author: fixed in commit 14ac4aadab44798ab0b81f83eab9fb8f194115c6

Reviewer 2: Verified on the current branch state ✓ — the formula now reads `kt1_alias = KT1(blake2b_160(utf8("0x" + lowercase_hex(evm_address))))`, matching the kernel, and the stale "as described below" is gone. (A small "the the" typo on that line is fixed in #450.) Resolvable.
